All right, it's reflection time and you know what happens during reflection time.
We look at our code and we evaluate if we've done anything wrong at all.
And so what I want to point out here is it's not necessarily that our code doesn't work, right.
Our code works, but it's not as efficient as it could be.
And it's not following all the proper reac patterns, potentially.
And so for that, when we set up our services, we set them up in a way so that they would work right,
we set it up in a way that we did our back and forth and we made it work.
But we may have inadvertently introduced some anti patterns, some patterns in react that although function
could cause bugs to happen very, very quickly.
And you remember when we set up our location context?
Well, when we set up our location context, remember when I told you that there was a difference between
using effect here versus using effect in the search component and having the search component determine
when it's going to do its initial search?
Well, I put that there because I wanted to show you something very useful that Iceland is doing for
us.
And although it may sound stupid at the time, why wouldn't I just write the code as if it was perfect
from the get?
Well, we're never going to get into a situation in a live production life product environment where
all the code is written perfectly and some code bases may come without Iceland, may come without the
tooling that we're setting up here.
And so I want to show you how you can leverage these tools to create the proper patterns.
And so in order to create the proper patterns we need to reflect, we always need to reflect.
We need to look at our code and we need to say, hey, what's going on here?
And sometimes the hints that the code give us are very important.
So we're done with a feature.
And as we do every time we're done with a feature, we're going to go look at the errors.
And so, you know, the majority of them are very small.
We need to add a new line here.
We have a variable over here that is unassigned and we have this use effect is defined but never used
in location context.
And so we're going to leave that there for now.
And we have this use memo that is not used as well.
So, OK.
Why am I leaving the effect in the location context?
You told us we don't need there, we're going to do it in our search component while our search component
is doing just fine.
Right.
It's searching once when it mounts and it's applying the search keyword and and everything works.
Right?
It works.
It just works.
But it's not the most optimal way you see, locally, we're storing our search keyword and we can see
over here that any and their search keywords, initial value is always going to be the keyword that
we get from the location context.
But there's a small problem here because right here, the react hook use effect is missing.
The dependancy search and search keyword either include them both or remove the dependency.
So if we add search and search keyword, what's going to happen is we're going to cause an infinite
loop.
We're going to cause our app not to render anymore.
And this is because now the use effect is going to change every time the keyword changes.
Now, how could the keyword be changing every time?
Well, every time we trigger search our location context is going and running on search, which is setting
the keyword.
And every time we set the keyword, subsequently we search our location, changes the object in this
use effect, this changing, which is rendering the search tree.
We very easily cause an infinite loop here.
And well, it's saying either add them both or remove it.
And if we remove it, the use effect will now run on every render cycle.
And every render cycle is basically every time anything changes.
Again, infinite loop.
So right here, this is very problematic, right?
We can very easily cause an infinite loop in our code just by doing this this very simple, simple effect.
We don't want that to happen.
Why this is happening is because we're searching with the search keyword.
The search keyword is changing.
The keyword.
The keyword is coming back and changing the state here and so forth and so forth and so forth and basically
causing an infinite loop.
Now, an easy way to fix this, to say, hey, Mo, just remove this here.
Right.
And if we remove that, it should work.
Right?
Like if we had search, keyword and search here, that should do it, right?
Well, not necessarily, because if we now go ahead and we reload, of course, our app is going to
be in a state where it's constantly re rendering still because the values are changing of search.
So this isn't ideal either, right?
This isn't ideal.
How do we go about fixing this?
Well, it's very nuanced.
It's very nuanced.
What we want to do is, first of all, we want to remove our use effect here because this isn't going
to work out for us.
This is causing us a whole lot of pain.
What we need to do is we need to have our context be a bit smarter about how it's going to use search.
So if we go into our location context, what we're going to do here, we're going to dissect our own
search function.
We're going to look at what exactly is going on in here.
So any time we run search, we're going to run the location context request at the same time.
But that isn't necessarily what we want to happen.
You see, any time we run both of these methods, we're changing.
We're running this.
This changes the location, the location, change your search changes, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
OK, so we need to be a bit smarter about how this happened.
So let's, first of all, go and remove this.
So any time we search, we're going to set is loading to true.
And we're going to set the key word to the search keyword.
And then we're going to say that we're going to take a use effect here.
So we're going to have the context determine when it's going to fire the request and it's going to be
smart about it.
So, first of all, let's put our request in here, right?
Let's put our request in here and let's say if keyboard length.
Right, because it's setting the keyword and then we're going to do keyword here.
We're going to use keyword again.
And what we're going to say here is if the key word changes, what we're going to do is we're going
to fire a new request.
And only then will we fire new request.
Will this solve our problem?
Well, let's go have a look here.
So over here inside of the search keyword, we're setting the initial state to the keyword.
And over here in our app, what we can see is let's go ahead and reload.
We're going to see that the app doesn't end up in a state where it's infinitely reloading.
This is because of the use effect inside of the location.
Context is only triggering our request to get the location when the search keyword changes.
So it's it's important to note how this life cycle works.
And it can be quite tricky.
We can inadvertently cause bugs.
So these warnings that Esslin show us, all these warnings, they have a meaning and a purpose and they
show us the proper patterns to follow.
And this is the proper pattern to follow when using context, triggering services.